These tasks have already been completed and are examples of successful projects from prior years.

= Previously Complete Projects =

== GSoC 2021 ==

=== <s>ext4 driver</s> ===

Develop a read-only ext2 filesystem driver. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ext2
* Difficulty: Medium ... Hard
* Language: C
* Mentors: [[Mike Kinney|https://github.com/mdkinney]] and [[Bret Barkelew|https://github.com/corthon]]
* Suggested by: rsun3
* Status: Completed :heavy_check_mark: as [[GSoC2021]] project by Pedro Falcato ([[@heatd|https://github.com/heatd]]).
* Available at: [[edk2-platforms/tree/master/Features/Ext4Pkg|https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-platforms/tree/master/Features/Ext4Pkg]]

More information: [[Tasks-ext2 file-system driver]]

=== <s>Enable Clang/LLVM Build for Microsoft Windows</s> ===

[[LLVM|https://llvm.org/]] support in [[EDK II]] is currently limited to Linux builds. Getting LLVM running on Windows would enable the TianoCore project to support Clang and the LLVM toolchain more robustly. Microsoft Windows 10 should be the primary target.
* Difficulty: Medium
* Language: C, Python
* Mentor: [[@shijunjing|https://github.com/shijunjing]]
* Suggested by: [[@shijunjing|https://github.com/shijunjing]]
* Status: Completed :heavy_check_mark: as [[GSoC2021]] project by Yuqi Chen ([[@alyssachne|https://github.com/alyssachne]]).
* Available at: [[https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-staging/tree/2021-gsoc-llvm-gnumake]]

== GSoC 2012 ==

=== <s>USB-to-serial driver</s> ===

Develop a USB driver for a common USB-to-serial adapter.
* Difficulty: Medium
* Language: C
* Mentor: [[@ErikBjorge|https://github.com/ErikBjorge]]
* Suggested by: [[@jljusten|https://github.com/jljusten]]
* Status: Completed :heavy_check_mark: as a [[GSoC2012]] project by Ashley DeSimone ([[@ashedesimone|https://github.com/ashedesimone]]).
* Available at [[edk2-platforms/Drivers/OptionRomPkg/Bus/Usb/FtdiUsbSerialDxe|https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-platforms/tree/master/Drivers/OptionRomPkg/Bus/Usb/FtdiUsbSerialDxe]]

More information: [[Tasks-USB Serial Adapter driver]]

== Other Completed Projects ==

=== <s>Shell editor improvements</s> ===

Various improvements for the Shell editor

* Difficulty: Medium
* Language: C
* Mentor: [[@jljusten|https://github.com/jljusten]]
* Suggested by: [[@jljusten|https://github.com/jljusten]], [[@ErikBjorge|https://github.com/ErikBjorge]], [[@jcarsey|https://github.com/jcarsey]]
* Status: Available in main edk2 tree

More information: [[Tasks-Text Editor]]

=== <s>Optimize OVMF for Xen HVM domains</s> ===

Add Xen specific support in [[OVMF]] to improve boot & runtime performance. http://www.xen.org/
* Difficulty: Medium/Hard
* Language: C
* Mentor:
* Suggested by:  andreiwarkentin, Bei Guan
* Status: Implemented via https://bugzilla.tianocore.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1689


=== <s>Port EmulatorPkg to Windows</s> ===

Port [[EmulatorPkg]] to Microsoft Windows (32/64 bit), as a replacement for [[NT32]].
* Difficulty: Medium
* Language: C
* Mentor:
* Suggested by: [[@ajfish|https://github.com/ajfish]]

More information: [[Tasks-EmulatorPkg for Windows]]

=== <s>Add Visual Studio 2017 Support</s> ===

Microsoft Visual Studio will be released March 7, 2017. Add VS2017 build support to EDK II.

=== <s>Port Intel Firmware Engine SDK Extensions to OVMF</s> ===

Intel Firmware Engine adds UserExtensions in the SDK to describe connections between modules and module parameters (as "Patchable In Binary" PCDs). This enables binary distribution of configurable firmware components. Porting these extensions to a branch of OVMF would allow development and testing of these concepts on a virtual platform.

* Status: This application has EOL'd as of Aug 2019
* Languages: C, Python
* Mentor: [[@jcarsey|https://github.com/jcarsey]]

=== <s>Enable Xen Support in OVMF</s> ===

Get Xen to boot UEFI with [[OVMF]].
* Difficulty: Hard (depending on tasks taken on)
* Language: C
* Mentor: andreiwarkentin, [[@jljusten|https://github.com/jljusten]]
* Suggested by:  andreiwarkentin
* Status: Available in main edk2 tree

=== <s>Multiprocessor support in UefiCpuPkg/CpuDxe</s> ===

Enable multiprocessor support for IA32 & X64 within UefiCpuPkg/CpuDxe.
(Implement MdePkg/Include/Protocol/MpService.h)
* Difficulty: Medium
* Language: Assembly, C
* Mentor:
* Suggested by: [[@jljusten|https://github.com/jljusten]]
* Status: Available in EDK II tree

More information: [[Tasks-UefiCpuPkg-CpuDxe MP support]]

=== <s>Enable Link-time Code Optimization for Linux builds</s> ===

Enable Link-time Code Optimization on Linux for either GCC or LLVM/CLANG. http://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/LinkTimeOptimization

This feature hopefully would significantly reduce code generation size
for Linux based builds.
* Difficulty: Medium
* Language: C
* Mentor:
* Suggested by: [[@ajfish|https://github.com/ajfish]], [[@jljusten|https://github.com/jljusten]]
* Status: Available in GCC5 & CLANG38 toolchains

= See Also =
* [[How To Contribute]]
