<!-- [[Category:GSOC2011]] -->
<!-- [[Category:Tasks]] -->
Develop an [[Wikipedia:Ext2|ext2]] filesystem driver.  (read-only support would be useful as a first step)

* Difficulty: Medium ... Hard
* Language: C
* Mentor: [[@ErikBjorge|https://github.com/ErikBjorge]]
* Suggested by: rsun3

= Status =
* Some progress was made during [[GSOC2011]] by Alin Rus
** Source: https://github.com/GunioRobot/Ext2Pkg
* A newer effort has been started based on GRUB filesystem drivers, however this code cannot be merged to TianoCore due to GRUB being licensed under the GPL.
** https://github.com/pbatard/efifs/tree/master/

=Details=
Filesystems in UEFI can be accessed through the SimpleFileSystem protocol.  This protocol is the defined within [https://github.com/tianocore/edk2/blob/master/MdePkg/Include/Protocol/SimpleFileSystem.h SimpleFileSystem.h].

This project should be completed with a BSD compatible solution.
This would mean that GPL licenses ext2 code or header files cannot be used.
You would need to investigate ext2's disk format by looking for documentation,
consulting with ext2(+) developers, or (as a last resort) by examining the disk contents.

It may be possible to leverage BSD compatible code from a
reputable open source project, but using 3rd-party code does add
some extra complexity (see [[Code Contributions]]).

=Development environment=
Building: This project can be completed on any edk2 supported OS or toolchain.

Testing: [https://github.com/tianocore/tianocore.github.io/wiki/OVMF OVMF] would probably provide the easiest environment for testing your project.  You should be able to build your driver into OVMF and then run OVMF with a hard disk image that contains an ext2 file-system.

=Further Discussion=
This project would be for an edk2 based driver, so please discuss the project on [[edk2-devel]].

=See Also=
* [[Tasks]]
* [[GSOC2011#Read-only ext2 driver]]